ANDY DICK: Once upon a time,
before the fall of man,
Adam and Eve were raw vegans.
What's a raw vegan you ask?
It's actually quite simple.
It's a diet based on eating
over 70% of raw foods,
or foods cooked below
118 degrees, basic things
like fruits, vegetables,
nuts, and seeds,
things that are not processed
or derived from animals.
OK, now where we again?
I said, once upon a time,
before the fall of man,
Adam and Eve were
raw vegans until--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[OWL HOOTING]
Cook.
Verb; to prepare food;
to tamper with; falsify.
Slang: To ruin.
Raw.
Adjective.
Clean, pure, uncontaminated,
free, safe, natural.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
ALEXA KAHN: Hi.
I'm Alexa Kahn.
I'm an actor here
in LA, and I am
interested in exploring the
raw food movement a little bit
further.
I think there are
a lot of benefits
to choosing a raw food diet.
Right off the bat, you're
eating healthily no matter what
you're consuming.
So you're limiting your
options, sure, but they're
all healthy options.
I also have a
gluten intolerance,
so maybe following a raw
diet, it could remedy that.
BARUCH: I was sick with
asthma for over 20 years.
I was on medications,
overweight a little bit.
So within a month
and half, I got
rid of asthma, lost 30 pounds.
All medications, they're gone.
So I realize how powerful it is.
I have a lot of health issues
I had prostate-related problems.
But the skin issue
was really bad.
I had what most people
now would describe
as acne rosacea, which is really
redness in the face, which
was awful.
And it went away very
shortly thereafter when I got
involved in eating raw food.
We cannot be ignorant anymore.
So it's not kind of a new
movement or something like.
It's a real thing.
We are going back to
the beginning of time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So today I'm going to actually
share something really cool
with you.
I call it a mock pork.
[CHIMES]
I'm going to use
my food processor,
sun dried tomatoes that have
been soaking and pumpkin seeds.
It's important to soak
all nuts and seeds.
[CHIME]
It makes them much
more digestible.
But more importantly, most
nuts and seeds have what
is called an enzyme inhibitor.
The enzyme inhibitor is
toxic to the human body.
Now it's time for
the processing time.
This is a really cool
trick that I learned.
And a lot of raw chefs
don't even know about this.
[FOOD PROCESSOR GRINDING]
[CHIME]
I'll take that as a
sign that it's done.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm brutally honest with myself.
And that's perfect.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Woo hoo.
Voila.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My name is Chef BeLive,
Spartan Lion King of light,
and Jedi world bridger.
Around 12 I had three
near-death experiences,
one where I actually flat-lined,
white light experience.
I met a cancer patient
who had actually
healed herself from eating
the raw living lifestyle.
And my mom had passed away
and died of cancer when
I was 18 years old, so
that was really-- you know,
that had an imprint
on me immediately.
I had the vision that I was
going to be one of the people
to bring raw living,
culinary artistry,
raw foods to the masses.
And since I have this,
somehow, this blessed gift
of taking something and
just like transforming it
into this orgasmic,
taste bud tantalizing,
tongue gift where I can serve
it to someone, and they eat it.
And they're like, what's this?
Wow, and there's
just this explosion
of flavor in their mouth.
All of a sudden that
plants that seed.
ERICA "OSHUN" KELLEY: Looks
like you made this with beets.
CHEF BE-LIVE: Chipotle beet.
ERICA "OSHUN" KELLEY:
All of his food
has always been like a
party in the mouth for me.
It's delicious.
It's healthy.
It's living food.
You can recreate anything
cooked into raw living food.
So it's amazing.
MAY: We're going to
make cookies today.
This is Ami.
[CHILD TRYING TO SPEAK]
And Maka.
Say hi.
Hi.
When I found out
I was pregnant,
I just knew I
wanted to raise them
eating raw foods
also, because I feel
like that's the best thing.
I notice that they don't get
sick like a lot of other kids,
you know, and I think
that has a lot to do
with what they were eating.
TY: What kind is it?
You always say it.
Natural chicken.
Natural?
Yea.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So this is Planet Raw, and
we do everything here amazing.
We make a lot of our own food.
There's just at lot of
things happening here.
Whenever I taste good that
tastes like health food,
I hate it.
Because it doesn't
taste good and so
we knew we had to come
up with super gourmet,
healthy food that was not
healthy tasting at all.
And We get it.
I basically view the
whole movement is a war.
A major war, you know raw
spelled backwards is war, see?
So a whole war against where
I'm I have to save the world.
Time is running out.
Everyone's against me.
If someone really stuck
to raw diet for many years,
they would-- my guess is they
would become malnourished,
because the human
digestive system
is not set up for a raw diet.
We have evolved over
the last 100,000 years
that we've had fire to consume
things that have been cooked.
We don't have the
muscle structure.
We don't have tooth structure.
We don't have the
intestinal structure
to be able to extract the
right amount of nutrition
from a raw diet.
I don't think people want
to be extreme in their food.
I mean there are
some people who do.
There are some people for whom
that's a very important issue.
And it's a political
issue and a moral issue.
And they have theories
about why it's important.
I think most people,
though, eat for pleasure.
My name is Joe Funk, and
this is the declaration
for living an inspired.
I choose to effortlessly.
eat the most ideal delicious,
nutritious, living,
raw cultured, enzyme-rich
foods and drink the most pure,
alkaline, ionized,
structured, mineral,
and antioxidant-rich
water that nourish
and heel my body, my mind,
my spirit, and my planet.
Because we're a
very wealthy society,
we can afford to pull
together a very diverse group
of different vegetables
and nuts and legumes
and all kinds of things and
spend the time and the money
on very complex preparations
to try to extract the nutrients
without cooking it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So this is my section,
my dessert section.
It looks amazing.
Let's see here, it's raw
been chocolate sicao goji
berries, maca, spirulina, wow.
What is this?
Rockin' Raw.
Oh.
$16.69.
That's expensive dessert.
Look, this says this
pecan butter is $40.09.
That is insane.
Pumpkin see butter $22.75.
Pistachio $52.19.
Oh my gosh.
I've had the cacao mint ganache.
This is regular
chocolate truffle cake.
This seems like we're
going to buy this today.
You want me to put
this down here?
Yes please.
OK.
One aspect of getting
involved in that cultural
was also learning a lot
more about detoxification
and cleansing, and I was doing
colonics and herbal tonics.
For me cleansing is just
giving your body some time
to not spend so much time
and energy on digestion
and really about
restoration and detoxifying.
So what I typically do is I'll
do the first and fifth day
of my cleanse will
be just raw foods
so lots of salads and fruits.
And then the three days in
between I do just juicing.
There's a lot of
research and people
out there who say that
basically what happens
is that waste builds
up and it begins
to line your intestinal walls.
And so if you think about it
that, if you get nutrients
through the intestinal walls
and you're releasing toxins,
if that's blocked, then what's
happening to that waste?
I was coming off the
cleanse, I was doing a liver,
gallbladder flush,
and I was feeling
the craving the entire
cleanse, Domino's Pizza.
What it is, is I sat and I
breathed with the openness
of driving on and not making
the call, or making the call
and indulging and
doing it guilt free.
So I called them up,
ordered it, walked in there,
grabbed the box,
and sat in my car
just grinding on this
pizza, just like oh, my god.
Like seriously, cheese and
sauce dripping down my face.
It was so good,
and I didn't feel
any ramifications afterwards.
Oftentimes, when you
go from one extreme
of cleansing to the
extreme of another,
there's major ramifications.
Because your body is
just going into shock.
So I was lucky.
I do not recommend this.
Don't try this at home, kids.
Those parasites that
we cultivate in our body
is a result of certain diet,
they have consciousness.
And this consciousness
is the consciousness
of what you call the
serpents or the snake
or the evil inclination,
whatever you want to call it.
And when you cultivate
that in your stomach,
they're in control.
What did you have
for breakfast?
Oh, chicken menstruation?
I mean chicken abortion.
Oh, I'm eating amniotic
fluid, some fetus
from some sick chicken called
fowl and some dead disease pig
ass, I mean bacon.
It's like, that's for breakfast?
Are you kidding me?
You already killed
seven animals.
And everybody's doing
it and no one knows.
No one cares.
No one knows.
No one can see thought it.
And everybody's crazy.
I'm sorry.
We label these
people out there as
like these crazy
zombie vampires running
around ripping into flesh.
We're like, whoa, blood
squirting out everywhere.
They don't care.
They're kind of crazy.
And I know it's the
norm, but that's just
because a lot of people do it.
I mean think about it.
It's kind of serious.
It's like you're a
dog, you have rights.
You're a cow.
You have no rights.
It can be a little bit
difficult having conversations
with raw food proponents,
because many times
these things don't have
anything to do with nutrition.
It becomes a tirade against
people who cook food, people
who-- especially people
who enslave animals
to derive nutrition.
This food is part of the shift.
Everybody's talking
about the shift,
but they're still
eating chicken.
You know it's part of the shift.
-Yea.
The spiritual shift.
Huge shift.
Part of the shift is for
your body is a vessel,
to be a vessel of light.
There is a frequency to food.
A lot of them tended to
be conspiracy theorists
so they'd bring in
all these books,
and so it was
always interesting.
They always had-- and I think
some of it probably is valid.
I think we tend
to laugh at them.
[PEOPLE TALKING IN BACKGROUND]
This is Rawsome and this is
the front entrance to Rawsome.
We have a very small sign up.
When you first enter in, you
see all the fresh produce
minus some of the greens,
which are kept cold inside.
All the produce id organic.
It is not conventionally grown.
I come to Rawsome
because I know
where everything comes from.
I know that James has talked
to every one of these farmers,
and I know that nothing
has been tainted.
And I'm not questioning whether
or not I'm putting something
in my body that's going
to affect me later,
cause me cancer, or
something like that.
There's a whole issue going
on with raw almonds right now.
Raw almonds I'm thinking about
three, four, or five years ago,
because somebody supposedly was
sickened by eating an almond,
they're now requiring all
almonds to be pasteurized.
But you can get almonds directly
from a grower if you're buying
100 pounds or less without
them being pasteurized,
which is what we do.
So I think that's a
completely idiotic law,
and it should be
repealed completely.
And no nuts should ever
be pasteurized, period.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
CHEF BELIVE: You guys
know what we do here.
We're here at the beach be live.
We're going to tell you
about the environment.
You guys know about
our Mother Earth right?
CHILD ON BEACH: Yea.
You know that this
is all we got here.
This is what brought
us here, right?
As far at the Earth and our
bodies being a lot alike,
do we want to put
trash in our bodies?
CHILD ON BEACH: No.
We want to eat healthy food
that's going to nourish us,
which is why we've
been provide raw foods,
because of it's high
enzyme energy content.
Do you guys know about enzymes?
CHILD ON BEACH: This
is my first day.
CHEF BELIVE: Oh, this
is your first day?
CHILD ON BEACH:
Yea, it's mine too.
CHEF BELIVE: Well, then you
need to know about enzyme.
They actually are what break
down all of the proteins, all
the carbohydrates,
and fats in our bodies
so that our bodies can
assimilate it and give us
healthy hair, skin, and bones.
You need strong bones for
your basketball right?
So when you come
down from a jump,
you don't like-- your
bone don't shatter.
It's really important to
eat fruits, vegetables,
and raw nuts and seeds.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi.
Alexa.
-How's it going?
-Nice to meet you.
I've heard a lot about you.
-I hope it it was all good.
-I mean it was.
-Just a little bit.
-And it looked really good too.
Yea. yea.
Do you get a little bit
of social anxiety ever?
In one of my best
friend's weddings,
I told them, well, listen, I'm
making this choice to go raw
or trying to.
And she's more supportive,
but he basically
was joking but he wasn't.
He's like, you will
eat what we provide.
I was like, oh, OK.
You just feel like
you know all the things
that are vegetable in this
menu that you're creating?
I won't make it hard.
Just take those, throw them onto
a plate, cut them up nicely.
Exactly.
Put on some olive oil and
just do something simple.
Right.
You know the essence of
why I'm there is to be
with my family and my friends.
Whether I can eat, or
I'm going to eat off
of what they're eating
and share this or that,
that doesn't really matter.
When push comes to
shove, it's really
more about like connecting.
MAY: You have to have a
community of people around you,
and at least there was one
person I knew I could go to
and say, OK, let's make
this meal together.
But I think it is a
community kind of effort,
and I think for me it
grew-- it started to become
a little cumbersome in terms
of always trying to convert
people to what I was eating.
-Hey.
What's going on?
Just making a little raw food.
What is it like a salad?
No, we're making gazpacho.
CHARLIE: So you're just going
to live off vegetable paste
for the rest of your life?
ALEXA KAHN: No.
I told you.
I'm going to teach you.
This is an easy step.
So I know you were saying you
were looking for healthier diet
so--
I feel like, easy
to start out with,
and then I have all
these cookbooks,
and we can make something
a little bit more
difficult next time.
You're going to cook
more raw food next time.
Well, you don't really cook it.
We're just going to prepare it.
So what are they
just blank books or--
ALEXA KAHN: I know that
it's hard to explain,
because it is a
lifestyle change.
But--
Like is raw food
culinary school?
Do they just like-- like--
put you near a bunch of ovens
and just discipline you
not to turn them on?
Or--
That's why I put the plates
over here, because I'm not
going to be using them anymore.
CHARLIE: You should
build a barrier.
ALEXA KAHN: Parsley,
cilantro, lots of flavor
for our little raw meal.
CHARLIE: Sure.
-Yea.
-Look at our creation.
It's like ah-- it's like brown.
Well, there are
colors in there.
OK, I think we're
actually ready.
Will you please get the
avocados ready for garnish?
Well, cheers to our
first raw meal together.
All right.
Thank you for your help.
Do you like it?
That is very good.
Thank you for introducing me
to a healthy, delicious snack.
ALEXA KAHN: You're welcome.
So you make this, I'll bring
over the chips and the people
food, and we'll have a feast.
It's a step.
It's baby steps for me.
Yea for me too.
Me too.
I feel like the fact that
you're over here and open to
it makes me happy.
And I'll just keep making
and trying new recipes,
and if you'll come
over and try it then--
Of course.
Whether they're going to
be able to appeal to eaters
outside of that core group
is what's going to determine
whether it grows or not.
And I think that's going
to depend on what they're
going to put on the plate.
I mean if they can
put food on the plate
that you're eating
because you enjoy it,
than I think it's going to grow.
But as long as it's food that
you eat because you think
you ought to, I think that
has a-- that kind of thing
has a pretty short shelf life.
People eventually will say, yea,
but I really want a hamburger.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
BARUCH: I want to call it
movement because movement
starts to new age.
It's information.
It's very valuable information.
We felt that the raw
food information,
it's not a privilege
of the few, it needs
to be spread to the masses.
I can't say that I
would never do it again.
I'm open to it.
Like I said, I don't look
back and say what was I doing.
I think I actually
felt really great,
but I just like the flexibility
of not-- I don't think
I really need a title anymore.
ALEXA KAHN: I met so many great
people, so many great chefs who
practice this lifestyle,
and it's inspiring
and I totally get the
desire to live this way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
TY: What I'm hoping, that we can
provide the best healthy choice
right now for them
to nurture and grow,
and then enough knowledge
for them to be aware of it
and move on.
I mean they gotta
make their own choice.
Everybody's sick
of feeling sick.
Everybody's sick of feeling bad.
Everybody just wants raw.
They don't even
know they want it,
and they're going to go find it.
I'm serious.
There's so much happening
right now in the raw world
so it's great.
CHEF BELIVE: When
I talk to someone
who is eating 80% raw
foods, like the difference
is definitely noticeable.
There's a small percentage of
raw foodists on this planet
right now.
Every single one
of us are pioneers.
Every single one of us are
taking it to the masses.
ANDY DICK: Here are
some other raw vegans.
Steve Jobs.
He's a computer guy.
Sting.
Tony Robbins with his
personal power probe.
Angela Bassett, what an actress.
Biance.
[WHISTLE]
ANDY DICK: David Bowie.
Robin Williams, hysterical.
Cher.
I got you.
Woody Harrelson.
Demi Moore.
Madonna, that's going a little
too fast for the Uma and Carol.
Who's that?
Oh, that's me.
I'm right in the middle.
Nothing will benefit
health an increase
the chances for survival--
do I even sound like him?
I think they should
just read that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]